The purpose of a scientific experiment or study is to conduct research in hopes of answering questions for society in regards to technology, medicine, and many other fields of study. Many past scientific experiments have led to major advances and proven to be one of the most well-founded ways of testing the reliability and safety of new products and medicines. Unfortunately, many scientist have crossed boundaries and conduct experiments leaving many animals and test subjects with both in the moment and long-term health defects. Restrictions should be placed on scientific experiments on animal testing and clonation because of the high risk and the cruelty involved that can lead to horrible side effects. 
	Animal testing and cloning experiments have proven to be extremely high risk and ineffective, as many experiments provide pointless and inaccurate results with high failure. Many of the conclusions made in animal-based experiments are based off of “inaccurate or misleading results” (Animal Testing 101). These misleading results often times convince the Food and Drug Administration to approve the tested products for use on humans and “more than half of the few drugs approved are later withdrawn or relabeled due to serious or lethal adverse effects in humans” (Limitations and Dangers). Even though products may have been effective on animals in the lab, these results do not always seem to be as effective results on humans, which obviously shows that using animal testing to predict results is not only a misguided approach, but also extremely risky. In cloning, the  success rate ranges from .1 percent to 3 percent” (What are the risks of cloning?), this just goes to show that cloning animals is an inefficient field of scientific advancement with a high risk of failure. Overall, the potential for wasted resources on these high risk experiments is too much, and restrictions should be placed on these studies to limit unsafe drug production and squandered resources.
	Experiments involving animal testing and cloning have also shown to be overly cruel and intrusive.  Every year, more that 100 million animals “suffer and die in cruel tests [and] experiments at universities.” (Animal Testing 101). In many of these experiments test subjects are “forced to inhale toxic fumes [and] pesticides” (Animal Testing 101), which may be the reason for many of the deaths in university experiments.  This shows the brutal nature of certain experiments and how it can sometimes result in the death of many animals. In one specific experiment designed to test Draize eye and skin irritancy, animals have their skin shaved and abraded by pressing wax strips on their bodies and then immediately removing it. This process is known to “cause intense pain, burning and itching” (About Animal Testing), which again shows the overly cruel manner of many experiments involving animals. Clonation has also proven to be an extremely grueling process for all animals involved, as the “embryos tend to be large, [which] can result in painful births that are often carried out by Caesarean section (Cloning = Cruelty). Many of the newborns that survive labor end up dying after only a couple days or weeks because of heart, liver and kidney problems (Cloning = Cruelty). Both animal testing and clonation are extremely harsh and often times result in suffering, health defects, and in some extreme cases, death. Restrictions need to be placed on animal testing and cloning to ensure that dangerous experiments can not kill millions of innocent animals. 
	As a result of the inhumane and invasive nature of these experiments, many animals are left with horrible physical damage. The level of precision needed to successfully clone an animal is extremely high leaving a large gap for error, which causes “the vast majority of clones [to] suffer from severe birth defects, painful disease, and premature death.” (Cloning Fact Sheet). For example, many cloned embryos are larger than normal, which causes excessively large organs and leads to “breathing [and] blood flow problems” later in life (What Are the Risks of Cloning?). This shows that even if the cloning process does not kill an animal immediately, it can still lead to physical health problems that are there for life. Additionally, animal testing can result in physical damage to the animals being used. These animals are “subjected to surgeries and other procedures, poisoned, burned, blinded, irradiated, gassed, shocked, drug overdosed, or genetically manipulated in a way that causes them harm” (ANIMALS IN SCIENCE). Such animals are also denied the chance to live normal lives, as they spend all their time in caged, unnatural environments. These experiments create a high pressure environment for the animals leading many animals to become subject to euthanasia (ANIMALS IN SCIENCE).  This shows that the pressures these experiments put on the animals is overwhelming and extremely abusive and dangerous to their health. The potential for negative physical repercussions of animal testing and cloning is too great, and restrictions should therefore be put in place to limit their damage. 
	In addition to physical damage, these experiments can also lead to long term mental disorders while they go through these studies. For example, new born baby animals are sometimes separated from their parents at birth and then forced to live lives of loneliness and abuse. The animals “shake and cower in fear whenever someone walks past their cages” (Animal Testing 101). This shows that animals experience large amounts of mental trauma that can cause them to be wary of anything or anyone. Labs also drive animals crazy during their experiments. In a private investigation, it was “revealed [that] monkeys [were] frantically spinning around and around in their cages, biting open wounds, mutilating themselves, and ripping out their own hair, all because of the chronic psychological distress they endure” (Limitations and Dangers). These animals have developed a disorder called stress-induced psychosis, showing that the stress experienced in these experiments can lead to serious mental disorders. There should be limitations on how far scientists experiment go when it comes to animal testing, to prevent the possibility of any mental damage on these animals. 
	Experiments using animal testing or cloning techniques need to have restriction placed upon them because of the level of risk and cruelty involved in them which could ultimately result in negative physical and mental side effects. The results of many of animal-tested experiments are unreliable, which sometimes results in FDA approval of unsafe drugs. Cloning also has an extremely high rate of failure, meaning that many of the resources put into this field are wasted on failed or just plain out ineffective studies. Many of animals also become victim to these experiments, as millions are killed every single year. These experiments also cause both physical and mental disorders that the animals are forced to cope with for the rest of their lives.In conclusion for all these reasons, animal testing and clonation should have restriction to limit or completely prevent negative repercussions for the animals.	
