More and more nuclear power plants are being built every year in the United States and it has become one of America’s most productive energy sources. Some people are still against nuclear energy, however. Many other people are uninformed on nuclear energy and what it actually is. Nuclear energy is the process of splitting uranium atoms to produce energy. It is created when reactors split uranium atoms in a process called fission. This process creates an enormous amount of heat, which is used to boil water held in a chamber. The steam generated from the boiling water is then pressurized and used to spin turbine generators, which produce energy. The only materials other than the reactor and turbine generators that are needed for fission are water and uranium. The uranium needed is extracted from the ground in a process called uranium mining. The waste material of fission is called SNF (spent nuclear reactor fuel). It is initially very radioactive, so the SNF must be placed in pools of water for twenty to forty years. After this period, the material is no longer radioactive and it can be stored in multi-barrier containers deep below the ground. Nuclear energy can be very advantageous if it is used properly and safely. A nuclear power plant should be built in Jefferson because it comes with many positives like increased employment and a better economy.
Nuclear energy can have many positives such as a more stable and lucrative economy and job market. Nuclear generators bring in enormous amounts of money each year for local communities. A typical nuclear power plant generates approximately $470 million in sales of goods and services in the local community per year ( Cost & Benefits Analyses ). This shows how a nuclear power plant could be beneficial to Jefferson because it would bring in millions of dollars in revenue. A nuclear power plant would also create a more stable and profitable job market. A nuclear power plant can generate up to 40 million dollars of labor income per year ( Cost & Benefits Analyses ). So not only would a plant bring in millions in revenue, it would also bring in millions in salaries for local plant operators. This would serve our community well by providing thousands of stable, high paying jobs for many of our town’s residents. In addition to its job growth, a nuclear power plant would also provide greater job security. According to DoSomething.org, “electricity generated by nuclear energy is not as susceptible to fluctuations in prices as coal and gas are” ( 11 Facts About Nuclear Energy ). This means that the income levels and job security of individuals working on the plant would be high, because the price of nuclear energy is not prone to variation. Nuclear power can be extremely lucrative and beneficial for Jefferson Township.
Nuclear energy also has many drawbacks including the danger and difficulty of radioactive waste disposal. Every year, United States nuclear power plants produce 2,000 metric tons of radioactive waste ( Nuclear Energy Data. ).	 This waste cannot be disposed of easily either. The process of disposal consists of pouring radioactive waste into large pools of water for decades. Some nuclear power plants remove large quantities of water from lakes and rivers in order to create these pools of water for the waste, which could affect aquatic life ( Cost & Benefits Analyses ). In addition, every 18 to 24 months, a power plant must shut down to remove its spent uranium fuel, which becomes radioactive waste ( 11 Facts About Nuclear Energy ). This means that the energy from that plant would be inaccessible for that duration of time, which could create problems for our town if that plant was our only supply of energy.
A survey was taken by members of the Jefferson community on whether or not they would support a nuclear plant and the results were

The data shows that the majority of the people surveyed did not want a nuclear plant to be built in their home town. Some of the reasons the people gave for this was that it would be too dangerous because of the radiation and that there could be an explosion. These risks are possible, but they probably would not happen and their opinions may have been impacted by modern societies negative connotation of nuclear energy. Some of the benefits that the public mentioned was the cheaper electricity and jobs. Both of these are reasonable perceived benefits.
Overall, Jefferson should invest in a nuclear power plant because it would bring in a lot of revenue for the town and it would create secure, well paying careers for Jefferson citizens. The risks are definitely prevalent, but also improbable. The benefits greatly outweigh the perceived risks because of their unlikelihood of happening. Even though most people do not support the building of a nuclear power plant in Jefferson, their views may have been clouded with ignorance about the safety of nuclear technology. Jefferson should construct a nuclear power plant in the near future.
